Let's move on to code splitting so,
we are gonna start with
a fresh version of this app.
So please grab another copy of
this one here, portals-and-refs.
Another fresh copy here,
we'll have to run an npm install.
While it's installing,
let's talk about what code splitting is,
you want your application to
be as fast as possible, right?
There's a lot of research that's gone into
how fast the page load correlates by how
much money your app can make.
Amazon has done just infinite research
on that subject, and relatively you can
translate web performance to dollars made,
in some capacity, right?
So you want to show your users useful
content as fast as possible, right?
I want a user to see above the fold
content so they can decide,
what do I want to do on the site today?
What do I want to click on they can
start that decision making process
of like seeing something understanding it.
Deciding what they're trying to do, and
then translate that to moving
the mouse to clicking on it right.
So in other words, there is a lag between
someone seeing something on the page,
what they can do and then moving their
mouse to be able to click on it.
So we're gonna show you a couple of
techniques on how to improve that.
The first one's gonna be code splitting,
so if you have a enormous application,
let's say what's a really big
application like, like Facebook, right?
Facebook does a million things, but
most of it is a single page application.
But if you load all of Facebook all
at once on your first page load,
that's gonna take a while, particularly
if you're on the 2G network right.
So you need to load part of
the application at a time, and
we're gonna do this through
a technique called code splitting.
So now that we have a fresh copy of this
application, we're gonna do something
where we're going to send the user
the bare minimum amount of JavaScript.
All at once to get our page up and
running, and
then not load everything else.
So, first of all, what I'm gonna
say here is for this application,
not only is it overkill, this is
actually actively a bad idea because our
application is actually so small.
That's splitting it up is a bad idea
because we're going to incur more
network latency.
But imagine you have like
a megabyte of JavaScript, right?
At that point, you'd want to send them
like 100 kilobytes to get them started.
And then back load that 900 kilobytes
later, does that make sense?
Like right now our application is no more
than, like 50 kilobytes, I imagine 5060 or
something like that.
So for us to split that into 10 mega
kilobyte chunks, it's not a great idea.
All that being said, we're definitely
gonna do it, it's gonna be fun, all right,
so head to app.js And
what I want you to do,
is I want at the top here, I want you to
grab two new things out of react here.
I want you to grab lazy, and
I want you to grab suspense,
lazy with a lowercase s with a capital S.
suspense is a component that's why it's
capitalized lazy is a function sweitzer.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna
split this by route, right so
if a user navigates to search params,
they're not gonna load details.
If they go to details,
they're not gonna load search params.
So and then if a user clicks
the page to go to details,
then they're going to
load that on the fly.
And we're gonna do that through
a technique called suspense.
So the first thing I want you
to do here is I want you to
delete these two imports for
details and search params.
If we leave those in,
then they're going to get bundled and
the art what we're trying to do
is here is not bundled them in.
Okay, but now we have these like, hey,
well, what is search parameters and
what is details?
What we're gonna do here is when
to say const details = lazy,
and I'm gonna use
a function called import.
This is called dynamic import,
it's a functionality built into
like JavaScript itself, right?
This isn't even just a react thing, import
here works how like require us to work for
common js,
right where it's a dynamic import.
So this is an import that works at runtime
parcel is actually smart enough to say
like, okay, I found an import.
I'm gonna break the code here, and
I'm gonna break it into multiple bundles.
Okay, so I'm gonna say import./details and
I'm gonna do the same thing here for
detail or for
search params, so now,
what lazy does is this lazy turns
this dynamic import this returns
a promise just so you know.
And this turns it into a component that we
can actually render here that works just
like details in search params.
But now it's a component that's
going to be the lazy loaded later.
Say that three times fast.
Now what I want you to do, Is,
I want you to wrap router here,
with suspense,
which is the component that we got.
And we're gonna move everything
inside a router inside of that.
Okay, now, what is suspense?
Suspense is basically saying, hey app,
if you run into a component that's
being lazy loaded in the background,
this is where you pause.
So for example here,
notice that the header,
actually the header is outside of it or
is inside of it rather.
But if I put it there, I could have
like a Now this h1 won't go away this,
let's make this an h2
This h2 won't go away
But everything inside of
here while it's waiting for
something to load is gonna
show them something.
So what you have to do is you
save fall back equals and
here we're just gonna put like
another h2 of loading route.
So now, if something's loading here,
it'll show that h2 to someone saying,
we're waiting for something.
Now, you should put some effort into this
and make this like a nice loading spinner
or something like that write something so
that the user like feels acknowledged.
Not some super lazy, hey, we're loading
stuff, you can sit there and wait.
Don't be actively hostile to your users,
that's my general advice to you.
All right, so let's go ahead and
turn on our npm run Dev.
Now the first thing I
want you to notice here,
when this is building is that this
is gonna spit out multiple things.
And if we look here inside of our dist,
notice that that we got app.js,
details.js search params.js and
those are all now separate files.
So app.js is gonna be the one
that they always load no matter
what this is going to have react in it.
This is gonna have app.js,
anything that we loaded here.
Team context, react router dom,
all this stuff that's shared among-st
all of them and
anything that's important here in app.js.
The other thing that's pretty cool,
let's say details.js,
let's say we had,
let's not look at the output.
Let's say that modal, in fact,
that's a good one modal is actually
only used here in details.js.
So, that means this is not going
to exist in the app.js bundle.
Or imagine that you're loading moment js,
right?
Everyone knows moment is enormous so, if
that was only being loaded in one route,
it would only come with that route.
Don't use moment, that's maybe
another just high level thing here.
There's much better things you can use,
like date fns or temporals,
the new thing, anyway,
know what this course is about.
Yeah, so that's really cool,
another really cool thing is it is smart
enough about let's say that both details,
and search brands used rx js,
it would be smart to see like both of
these are gonna actually use those.
I'm gonna just share that, and I actually
can create shared bundles that get loaded
with either one of them as well.
So it's actually pretty intelligent
of how it splits these out.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
open our Adopt Me here.
So let's look at our
Network panel down here.
And look at everything coming in, let's
just just notice that we got AP details,
but we did not get search params and
notice this h2 won't go away.
Okay now if I click adopt me notice
it's going to load search params.js,
and it did.
But if I go back to this page,
it's smartest, like I already have these.
I don't have to do anything about that,
right, so that's the power of suspense
that just basically says like, if it's
loaded, it'll keep those in memory and
reload them again,
like it won't re request the JavaScript.
It's smart off to keep them on hand, and
that's pretty much it,
that's as hard as code splitting is.
You just identify points
in your application and
routes is an obvious place to do it,
but you can do it in other places.
In fact, we're gonna do it with modal here
in just a second just to show you that you
can do it even within applications,
or within routes.
But yeah,
this is a way that you can cut down your
bundle size on really large applications.
Just make sure that it's worth it right,
and like I said, in this case,
it would not be worth it because this
is such a small application that we're
definitely we're splitting
hairs at this point.